In this lesson, we'll look at how to change the volume of a whole group of sounds.
We will need this feature for further testing. It can also be used in the settings of your game.
That is, the player may want to make the background music quieter, or the special effects sounds quieter.
In a specific SoundCue, we can change the VolumeMultiplier property, set the volume to 0 and the sound
will not actually be played. We return the value. Changing the sound separately for each
SoundCue is laborious. We can have 1000 sounds pertaining to a character. We can do
this in a more centralized way. There is a special asset in unreal called SoundClass.
Let's create a settings folder in the sounds root. Right click and in the sound category
in the classes subcategory, find the asset SoundClass. We call it SoundClassCharacter.
This asset allows you to configure various sound parameters and apply them to many SoundCue.
Set the volume to 0, go to the SoundCue JumpEnd, find the property Class, the default is master.
This asset is in the content of the engine, we will look at it a little later. Select our sound class
and set this sound class for all SoundCue related to character sounds.
And let's see how our sounds work now.
We start the game.
Footstep and jump sounds are no longer played.
In this case, the rest of the sounds are in place. Thus, with the help of a sound class, we can manage a group of sounds.
Let's create additional sound classes for weapons and UI:
sound class weapon and third asset - sound class UI.
And put them on the corresponding SoundCue.
Checking. We all have sound classes set to volume = 0, so we don't have sounds in the game right now.
Let's set the volume value in each sound class to one.
All sounds are played again. Now we are able to control the volume of a group of sounds.